# Mood-Board-Tutorial
Made in collaboration with Trevor Carson and Jadyn Iinuma

For higher readability, download the notebook and open in Google Colab.

Our tutorial is catered towards students who have a solid base of knowledge about basic CS principles, and who are eager to learn how to use tools that can be applied to creating software development or similar modes of design. Mood boards are a collection of images intended to evoke a specific emotion from the viewer. They usually contain similar objects or colors to create a cohesive emotional tone within the image collection. While our tutorial will center around the creation of a mood board, we hope that the skills and understanding of the APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) used in this tutorial can be extended to other areas of interest that users may have.
	Our idea for mood boards stemmed from their versatility and usefulness. Mood boards can serve in a variety of ways, from professional applications concerning marketing and design to personal uses - and this project exposes users to a variety of tools commonly used in software development. 
  From a more low-level perspective, compiling mood boards can be time-consuming and tedious. Our tutorial will teach students how to create a mood board for software by using the existing Disney+ app as an example. They will learn how to create the mood board using the scripting language Python. Specifically, they will learn how to scrape data from an image site, Pinterest, to get images matching their keywords, then filter that photo, and finally align it with multiple other photos to create their Disney mood board. Scraping data and image manipulation are useful skills in the industry, outside of how we present them to make mood boards. Scraping is the process of collecting data from the internet to process in code. Uses of scraping include training machine learning models and analyzing online behavior. In our tutorial, we will teach image manipulation by showing users how to arrange a collection of images on one page and adjust their color.
  Our target audience is students preparing for software industry work. As CS students ourselves, we feel equipped to serve this target audience. With that said, anyone hoping to broaden their technical and design skills could benefit from this tutorial, as long as they have a basic understanding of CS principles or have taken an introductory-level course (such as CS5). We will cater to students by addressing concerns they may have about entering the workforce; highlighting the usefulness of mood boards in the design process and other potential professional uses of the skills taught in the tutorial. We will also cater to students by minimizing assumptions of prior knowledge: making sure to start with an explanation of how data scraping even works. Our goal is to help them develop a mood board for a product that will give their collaborators a clear understanding of the product’s overall look and feel.
